# structural-project
Warehouse modelling and its structural analysis.
The Steel structure is modelled in STAAD Pro with structural elements of varying section sizes to get an optimum design in valuable budget. The Main frame sidewall columns are provided with fixed supports and gable end columns are provided with pinned Supports. The bracings are considered to provide stability to the building in the longitudinal direction . The main steel structures are modelled and analysed as moment frame systems in the transverse direction to resist both gravity and lateral loads. The longitudinal bracing systems along the wall and the roof will function as the lateral load resisting system in longitudinal direction. The loadings and load combinations are considered as per standards . The modelling and analysis for primary steel frames is done in STAAD pro analysis software . The same software is also employed to perform the design of the sections. The bracing systems are ‘X’ bracings. The diagonal bracings are tension members only and the horizontal ties are compression members. The bracing elements are analysed and design using STAAD pro analysis software . In addition to the horizontal ties of the bracing system, additional ties are provided in the columns in longitudinal direction to reduce the effective length of the columns and provide lateral supports. The elements sizes are finalized according to the required sectional properties based on the analysis results to ensure the design safety and economic value. The wind load assumed in this model is based on the AISC standard because to highlight the differences in the AISC and IS Standard to find the optimum design methodology. The selection of various elements to perform the safe distribution of load acting on them to the soil safely are done with the reference and sources available. Since the total weight of the structural elements plays a role in cost and efficient design of structure, various iteration carried out in the selection of elements.
